docs/quickstart/get-started.rst, before:

Quickstart
==========

.. _building_library:

Building the library
--------------------
Add notes here from `instructions.txt`, including how to build with the different XML libraries,
how to build with test and check C library, how to build SWIG Python bindings, etc.
This section must mention a `build/` folder.


.. _building_windows:

How to build on Windows
-----------------------
You need to install both `Visual Studio <https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/>`_  and 
`CMake <https://cmake.org/download/>`_..

.. _building_documentation:

Building the documentation
--------------------------
The documentation is automatically built on readthedocs with every commit. However, you
can still generate the documentation locally along your normal build (see `Building the library`_). For that you will 
need the following requirements installed: 

  * doxygen <https://www.doxygen.nl>
  * python3

Next you need the following python packages ``breathe`` and ``sphinx_rtd_theme``. So we start
by creating a virtual environment, activating it and installing the packages into it. 

.. code-block:: bash

    ~ > python3 -m venv venv 
    ~ > . ./venv/bin/activate
    (venv) ~ > pip install sphinx_rtd_theme breathe
    (venv) ~ > brew install doxygen

The command ``pip show breathe`` will show whereabouts on your system ``breathe`` has been installed.
This location needs to be added to your ``PYTHONPATH`` before building the documentation.
For example, if the ``breathe`` directory is installed as ``/Users/smith/venv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/breathe``,
add ``/Users/smith/venv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/`` to your ``PYTHONPATH``. For example:

.. code-block:: bash

    > export PYTHONPATH="/Users/smith/venv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/"
    > echo $PYTHONPATH
    /Users/smith/venv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/


Since the documentation is not generated by default, you have to reconfigure your cmake
project for the libLX API next. So change into your build folder from before, and
reconfigure with the option ``-DWITH_DOXYGEN=ON``.

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) ~ > cd liblx/build
    (venv) build > cmake -DWITH_DOXYGEN=ON ..

    add some typical cmake output here

    ...
    -- Configuring done
    -- Generating done
    -- Build files have been written to: /some/path/or/other/build
    (venv) build >

Errors would have shown if Doxygen or Sphinx could not be found in the process. Now you
are ready to build the documentation with: 

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > make Sphinx
    [ 50%] Generating documentation with Sphinx
    Running Sphinx v3.5.4

    .... add sample output here .....

    build succeeded.

    The HTML pages are in sphinx.
    [100%] Built target Sphinx

    (venv) build >

And at this point you have the HTML pages generated in ``./docs/sphinx/`` with the 
main document being ``./docs/sphinx/index.html``

Running the tests - check the next line is correct.
-----------------
We use the testing framework catch2 <https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2> and 
integrated it with the cmake build, so after building the library you can run 
the tests using ``ctest``:

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > ctest -V

If you want to run tests on another build configuration, you can specify those
using the ``-C`` option. So for example for the debug build:

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > ctest -C Debug -V     # check this is true for liblx




The following is specific to COPASI. Add liblx details as appropriate...
========================================================================



You can also run the test binary directly, but in that case test files provided in
``./tests/test-data`` will not be automatically found, as the source dir is not known. 

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > ./tests/test_api
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    test_api.exe is a Catch v1.5.6 host application.
    Run with -? for options

    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    load copasi file and access via regular COPASI api
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    /copasi-api/tests/TestCore.cpp(32)
    ...............................................................................

    /copasi-api/tests/TestCore.cpp(38): FAILED:
    REQUIRE( dm->loadModel(fileName, 0) == true )
    with expansion:
        false == true

    ===============================================================================
    test cases:  2 |  1 passed | 1 failed
    assertions: 22 | 21 passed | 1 failed

In that case you can specify an environment variable ``srcdir`` pointing to it: 

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > srcdir=/copasi-api/tests ./tests/test_api
    ===============================================================================
    All tests passed (24 assertions in 2 test cases)

Additional options of the test runner: 

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > ./tests/test_api -?
    Catch v1.5.6
    usage:
        test_api [<test name, pattern or tags> ...] [options]

    where options are:
        -?, -h, --help               display usage information
        -l, --list-tests             list all/matching test cases
        -t, --list-tags              list all/matching tags
        -s, --success                include successful tests in output
        -b, --break                  break into debugger on failure
        -e, --nothrow                skip exception tests
        -i, --invisibles             show invisibles (tabs, newlines)
        -o, --out <filename>         output filename
        -r, --reporter <name>        reporter to use (defaults to console)
        -n, --name <name>            suite name
        -a, --abort                  abort at first failure
        -x, --abortx <no. failures>  abort after x failures
        -w, --warn <warning name>    enable warnings
        -d, --durations <yes|no>     show test durations
        -f, --input-file <filename>  load test names to run from a file
        -#, --filenames-as-tags      adds a tag for the filename
        --list-test-names-only       list all/matching test cases names only
        --list-reporters             list all reporters
        --order <decl|lex|rand>      test case order (defaults to decl)
        --rng-seed <'time'|number>   set a specific seed for random numbers
        --force-colour               force colourised output (deprecated)
        --use-colour <yes|no>        should output be colourised

Commit message:

Adding in more details for Windows build process.

docs/quickstart/get-started.rst, after:

Quickstart
==========

.. _building_library:

Building the library
--------------------
Add notes here from `instructions.txt`, including how to build with the different XML libraries,
how to build with test and check C library, how to build SWIG Python bindings, etc.
This section must mention a `build/` folder.


.. _building_windows:

How to build on Windows
-----------------------
You need to install:

 -  `Visual Studio <https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/>`_  (I included the Windows 10 SDK; needed??)
    In my case this was Microsoft Visual Studio Community 2019, Version 16.11.1


 -  `CMake <https://cmake.org/download/>`_. I  chose the Windows installer and checked the box to update PATH.

You then need to download the `SBML Windows dependencies <https://sourceforge.net/projects/sbml/files/libsbml/win-dependencies/>`_.
This contains a number of libraries used by SBML, and by `liblx` too.
Right now there is no "version 16", so I downloaded the highest available one (15), using the debug
version as I am working on the core `liblx`. Make sure you check the checksums
The version i downloaded, when unzipped, created a directory which had a space in the name, and a quote mark
at each end. For simplicity, I renamed it:
mv 'libSBML Dependencies-1.0.0-b1-win64' libSBML-Dependencies-1.0.0-b1-win64
or, in Windows cmd shell window:

  rename "libSBML Dependencies-1.0.0-b1-win64" libSBML-Dependencies-1.0.0-b1-win64

Then create a new build/ directory; I did mine inside the liblx directory cloned from Github.
Then, from within that new build directory, in a Visual Studio Command Prompt:

  cmake -DLIBLX_DEPENDENCY_DIR=C:\Users\mattg\repos\work\CompBioLibs\libSBML-Dependencies-1.0.0-b1-win64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DWITH_STATIC_RUNTIME=ON ..

The LIBLX_DEPENDENCY_DIR is the absolute path to the unzipped (and renamed) folder.

There are some `detailed instructions <http://sbml.org/Software/libSBML/5.18.0/docs/cpp-api/libsbml-installation.html#detailed-windows>`_ for building libSBML on Windows (which we can adapt for building liblx).

.. _building_documentation:

Building the documentation
--------------------------
The documentation is automatically built on readthedocs with every commit. However, you
can still generate the documentation locally along your normal build (see `Building the library`_). For that you will 
need the following requirements installed: 

  * doxygen <https://www.doxygen.nl>
  * python3

Next you need the following python packages ``breathe`` and ``sphinx_rtd_theme``. So we start
by creating a virtual environment, activating it and installing the packages into it. 

.. code-block:: bash

    ~ > python3 -m venv venv 
    ~ > . ./venv/bin/activate
    (venv) ~ > pip install sphinx_rtd_theme breathe
    (venv) ~ > brew install doxygen

The command ``pip show breathe`` will show whereabouts on your system ``breathe`` has been installed.
This location needs to be added to your ``PYTHONPATH`` before building the documentation.
For example, if the ``breathe`` directory is installed as ``/Users/smith/venv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/breathe``,
add ``/Users/smith/venv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/`` to your ``PYTHONPATH``. For example:

.. code-block:: bash

    > export PYTHONPATH="/Users/smith/venv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/"
    > echo $PYTHONPATH
    /Users/smith/venv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/


Since the documentation is not generated by default, you have to reconfigure your cmake
project for the libLX API next. So change into your build folder from before, and
reconfigure with the option ``-DWITH_DOXYGEN=ON``.

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) ~ > cd liblx/build
    (venv) build > cmake -DWITH_DOXYGEN=ON ..

    add some typical cmake output here

    ...
    -- Configuring done
    -- Generating done
    -- Build files have been written to: /some/path/or/other/build
    (venv) build >

Errors would have shown if Doxygen or Sphinx could not be found in the process. Now you
are ready to build the documentation with: 

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > make Sphinx
    [ 50%] Generating documentation with Sphinx
    Running Sphinx v3.5.4

    .... add sample output here .....

    build succeeded.

    The HTML pages are in sphinx.
    [100%] Built target Sphinx

    (venv) build >

And at this point you have the HTML pages generated in ``./docs/sphinx/`` with the 
main document being ``./docs/sphinx/index.html``

Running the tests - check the next line is correct.
-----------------
We use the testing framework catch2 <https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2> and 
integrated it with the cmake build, so after building the library you can run 
the tests using ``ctest``:

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > ctest -V

If you want to run tests on another build configuration, you can specify those
using the ``-C`` option. So for example for the debug build:

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > ctest -C Debug -V     # check this is true for liblx




The following is specific to COPASI. Add liblx details as appropriate...
========================================================================



You can also run the test binary directly, but in that case test files provided in
``./tests/test-data`` will not be automatically found, as the source dir is not known. 

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > ./tests/test_api
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    test_api.exe is a Catch v1.5.6 host application.
    Run with -? for options

    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    load copasi file and access via regular COPASI api
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    /copasi-api/tests/TestCore.cpp(32)
    ...............................................................................

    /copasi-api/tests/TestCore.cpp(38): FAILED:
    REQUIRE( dm->loadModel(fileName, 0) == true )
    with expansion:
        false == true

    ===============================================================================
    test cases:  2 |  1 passed | 1 failed
    assertions: 22 | 21 passed | 1 failed

In that case you can specify an environment variable ``srcdir`` pointing to it: 

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > srcdir=/copasi-api/tests ./tests/test_api
    ===============================================================================
    All tests passed (24 assertions in 2 test cases)

Additional options of the test runner: 

.. code-block:: bash

    (venv) build > ./tests/test_api -?
    Catch v1.5.6
    usage:
        test_api [<test name, pattern or tags> ...] [options]

    where options are:
        -?, -h, --help               display usage information
        -l, --list-tests             list all/matching test cases
        -t, --list-tags              list all/matching tags
        -s, --success                include successful tests in output
        -b, --break                  break into debugger on failure
        -e, --nothrow                skip exception tests
        -i, --invisibles             show invisibles (tabs, newlines)
        -o, --out <filename>         output filename
        -r, --reporter <name>        reporter to use (defaults to console)
        -n, --name <name>            suite name
        -a, --abort                  abort at first failure
        -x, --abortx <no. failures>  abort after x failures
        -w, --warn <warning name>    enable warnings
        -d, --durations <yes|no>     show test durations
        -f, --input-file <filename>  load test names to run from a file
        -#, --filenames-as-tags      adds a tag for the filename
        --list-test-names-only       list all/matching test cases names only
        --list-reporters             list all reporters
        --order <decl|lex|rand>      test case order (defaults to decl)
        --rng-seed <'time'|number>   set a specific seed for random numbers
        --force-colour               force colourised output (deprecated)
        --use-colour <yes|no>        should output be colourised
